# phelix
Line6 Helix preset generator

## Description

Generates random presets for Helix processors, and enables you to mutate your own presets to search for unusual sounds.

__WARNING!__  I can't guarantee it won't brick your Helix.  But it hasn't wrecked mine yet.

__WARNING!__  Levels can vary a LOT!  I use an external limiter on the output when listening with phones.  

_BE CAREFUL, PROTECT YOUR HEARING._


## Prerequisites

Install Python.  Python 3 works for me.  You might need to install a few extras, if phelix fails... hopefully the output will let you know what's missing.
Phelix works with Helix firmware 3.71, tested with a Helix LT.


--------------------------------


## Usage

In a terminal, go to the phelix folder and run `python3 phelix.py`.
You'll see 3 tabs: Generate, Mutate and Probabilities.  There will be some basic settings already loaded.  

### Generate

_Click "Generate" at the bottom of the controls._  

With luck, 5 new presets can now be found in the presets/generated folder.  Now you can use HXedit to import these to your Helix.  There's a chance one or more of the presets will be blank when you import them.  I think this happens if the preset would use too much processing, and so the Helix counts it invalid.  Great, the Helix didn't break!

You can provide your own template file or use the default one provided, and phelix will substitute random blocks for each block in your template, shuffle the blocks on the paths, randomise the parameters for 8 snapshots per preset (plus the default preset), and map 16 parameters to Helix pedal 2.

### Mutate

You can mutate a preset generated by phelix or one of your own, choosing a snapshot to start from or just the preset defaults.  Mutating swaps and shuffles a few blocks, and nudges the parameters around a bit.  Watch out for old cabinets in your presets, phelix can't handle them (yet).

### Probabilities

Here you can set the relative chances for each kind of block to be chosen.

### One more thing

You can save your settings under the File menu in the menu bar.

--------------------------------

## Folders/files

### blocks/

Contains the blocks that have been exported from a Helix which phelix loads to construct a new preset. So far these are (almost all) mono and legacy, but this might change (you can add any if you find them missing).  
The blocks are made using HXedit by snapshotting all parameters (except bypass) and exporting as presets.  These are then processed with extractBlocks.py to generate the block files.  
So far, IR blocks, legacy Amp/Cab, Preamps and seperate Amp and Cab blocks aren't included.


### presets/generated/

Holds generated presets.

### presets/templates/

Has template presets which phelix modifies by swapping blocks from the blocks folder. The one called LessOccSplit.hlx has 5 blocks on each dsp, and uses all the paths.  This seems a fairly reliable number of blocks before the presets fail to load, since phelix doesn't account for more and less dsp intensive effects.  That said, phelix limits Amp/Cab combos to one per dsp (though they may mutate beyond that... I have to check)


--------------------------------

## Contributing

Please do.  

## License

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 3
